Add some more details to the compression/chunking README (#17561)
microsoft/FluidFramework: packages/runtime/container-runtime/src/opLifecycle/README.md

By default, the runtime is configured with a max batch size of `716800` bytes, which is lower than the 1MB limit. The reason for the lower value is to account for possible overhead from the op envelope and metadata.

### How batching works

> Batching in the context of Fluid ops is a way in which the framework groups ops and sends them to the server in a single payload. Afterwards the ops will be broadcasted in the same order to all the other connected clients. Additional logic and validation ensure that batches do not interleave and they are processed in isolation. This means two things:

Reviewer: I'd more clearly separate Fluid promises to customers and service interaction. From Fluid perspective we should not speak how we send ops to service, as that's internal implementation (and in fact is being changed by your work). I'd only talk about - we promise that all side-effects (in the form of ops) that were done in one JS turn will apply without interruption in one go on all remote machines, and that such changes will not be interleaved by changes from other clients. I'd stress that's important correctness feature, as it allows remote machines not to expose partial state of data model (while rendering or processing user input).

> Batching in the context of Fluid ops is a way in which the framework accumulates and applies ops. A batch is a group of ops accumulated within a single JS turn, which will be broadcasted in the same order to all the other connected clients and applied synchronously. Additional logic and validation ensure that batches do not interleave and they are processed in isolation. This means two things:

Reviewer: maybe add "without interleaving of ops from other clients"

-   A client will always start sending a new batch only after finishing a batch. Batches will never be sent interleaved or nested.
-   When receiving a batch of ops, the client will process it in isolation without interleaving it with other batches or ops from other clients

The way batches are formed is governed by the `FlushMode` setting of the `ContainerRuntimeOptions` and it is immutable for the entire lifetime of the runtime and subsequently the container.

```
export enum FlushMode {
    /**
     * In Immediate flush mode the runtime will immediately send all operations to the driver layer.
     */
    Immediate,

    /**
     * When in TurnBased flush mode the runtime will buffer operations in the current turn and send them as a single
     * batch at the end of the turn. The flush call on the runtime can be used to force send the current batch.
     */
    TurnBased,
}
```

> What this means is that `FlushMode.Immediate` will send each op it its own payload to the server, while `FlushMode.TurnBased` will accumulate all ops in a single JS turn and send them together in the same payload. Technically, `FlushMode.Immediate` can be simulated with `FlushMode.TurnBased` by calling any async API immediately after producing each op. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, `FlushMode.Immediate` enables all batches sent to the server to have only one op.

Reviewer 2: Typo
```suggestion
What this means is that `FlushMode.Immediate` will send each op in its own payload to the server, while `FlushMode.TurnBased` will accumulate all ops in a single JS turn and send them together in the same payload. Technically, `FlushMode.Immediate` can be simulated with `FlushMode.TurnBased` by calling any async API immediately after producing each op. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, `FlushMode.Immediate` enables all batches sent to the server to have only one op.
```

> What this means is that `FlushMode.Immediate` will send each op in its own payload to the server, while `FlushMode.TurnBased` will accumulate all ops in a single JS turn and send them together in the same payload. Technically, `FlushMode.Immediate` can be simulated with `FlushMode.TurnBased` by calling any async API immediately after producing each op. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, `FlushMode.Immediate` enables all batches sent to the server to have only one op.

Reviewer: Small correction on how JS runtime works:
" by calling any async API immediately after producing each op" - this applies only to async functions only, and "calling" is probably not the right term (as calling even async functions is actually synchronous process - what is async is doing "await" - everything else (including calling async function that returned synchronously) is not interrupting the JS turn).

Reviewer: I'd probably not say about "equivalence" here, but rather - doing await will most likely flush the batch :) We should figure out how to remove "most likely" part. But I'm not sure - it gets tricky pretty quickly as we start talking about order of micro-tasks that we do not control

**By default, Fluid uses `FlushMode.TurnBased`** as:

-   it is more efficient from an I/O perspective (batching ops overall decrease the number of payloads sent to the server)

> -   reduces concurrency related bugs, as it ensures that all ops are generated within the same JS turn and then applied by all clients within a single JS turn. Clients using the same pattern can safely assume ops will be applied exactly as they are observed locally.

Reviewer: You touch on this, but it might be not clear to reader where the risks are. Not sure if it's good analogy to mention here, but for me the best analogy - we do not allow synchronous execution of JS engine to be interrupted and process input or render - that would be devastating (random reentrancy). Somewhat same principle applies to remote machines - they should not be exposed to similar kind of reentrancy when they have only partial state of such synchronous JS execution.

> -   reduces concurrency related bugs, as it ensures that all ops are generated within the same JS turn and then applied by all clients within a single JS turn. Clients using the same pattern can safely assume ops will be applied exactly as they are observed locally.

Reviewer 2: I think this reads a bit clearer. The fact that the ops are generated within the same JS turn is not exactly _thanks_ to `turn-based`, right? If I'm understanding correctly, `Immediate` guarantees that every op will happen on a separate JS turn because it explicitly splits them (and calls async APIs to send each of them, thus causing the turn to end?). But `turn-based` just respects whatever the app did in terms of which ops were generated within the JS turn, right?
```suggestion
-   reduces concurrency related bugs, as it ensures that all ops generated within the same JS turn are also applied by all other clients within a single JS turn. Clients using the same pattern can safely assume ops will be applied exactly as they are observed locally.
```

In case of emergency grouped batching can be disabled at runtime, using feature gates. If `"Fluid.ContainerRuntime.DisableGroupedBatching"` is set to `true`, it will disable grouped batching if enabled from `IContainerRuntimeOptions` in the code.

> ### Notes

Reviewer: I'd probably not have that line (isolate into sub-section) - sections are small, and "Notes" are not in the list of content, so value of that is low. Same for next section

    }
```

## Note about performance and latency

In terms of performance and impact on latency, the results greatly depend on payload size, payload structure, network speed and CPU speed. Therefore, customers must perform the required measurements and adjust the settings according to their scenarios.

> In general, compression offers a trade-off between higher compute costs, lower bandwidth consumption and lower storage requirements, while chunking slightly increases latency due to the overhead of splitting an op, sending the chunks and reconstructing them on each client. Grouped batching heavily decreases the number of ops observed by the server and slightly decreases the bandwidth requirements as it merges all the ops in a batch into a single op and also eliminates the op envelope overhead.

Reviewer: I'd probably not give user a choice to disable chunking, and thus not mention it here - there are no benefits for users here (broken system has no perf metrics :))
I think grouping is going to be either always positive, or non-measuable (in terms of regression). Do we have any reasons to believe users may benefit from disabling it? If not, we should probably state that it's neutral and not give option to disable.

Compression is the only thing that is interesting in terms of giving knobs to users I think.

The less options we give to users - the better :)

Author: Not sure which part you're referring to (either the example configs or the feature flags), but I will remove some configs, specifically the ones which enable compression and not chunking.

As for grouped batching, we do still consider it experimental and opt-in with code changes. Disabling it without code changes (via feature flags) should be documented as well.

> ## How it works

Reviewer 3: I think this sections belongs to line 68 where you were talking about Compression.

    }
```

## Note about performance and latency

> In terms of performance and impact on latency, Fluid does not make any guarantees or provide benchmarks as the effects of compression/chunking/grouped batching are coupled with the nature of the payloads and the configured `FlushMode`. Therefore, customers must perform the required measurements and adjust the settings according to their scenarios.

Reviewer: I think the language is too negative. Instead of saying "no guarantees" we should say - results depends on payload size, network speed, CPU speed, payload structure (easily compressible or not).

> In general, compression offers a trade-off between higher compute costs, lower bandwidth consumption and lower storage requirements, while chunking slightly increases latency due to the overhead of splitting an op, sending the chunks and reconstructing them on each client. Grouped batching heavily decreases the number of ops observed by the server (therefore decreasing the odds of throttling) and slightly decreases the bandwidth requirements as it merges all the ops in a batch into a single op and also eliminates the op envelope overhead.

Reviewer: I think chunking should not be optional - it's correctness feature (all correctness features should not be optional).
We should only expose knobs (at final step) to when to engage compression (starting size), and that's probably it? When compression is disabled, we should still provide all the same promises of correctness (any payload sizes) and ordering, grouping all the ops (using "trivial" compression) and eventually getting rid from "batching" element of protocol (i.e., simplify protocol and for service does not care about sequencing all ops in one "submitOp" message together - the simpler protocol the better). But this is future (2-3 years for FRS)

> In general, compression offers a trade-off between higher compute costs, lower bandwidth consumption and lower storage requirements, while chunking slightly increases latency due to the overhead of splitting an op, sending the chunks and reconstructing them on each client. Grouped batching heavily decreases the number of ops observed by the server (therefore decreasing the odds of throttling) and slightly decreases the bandwidth requirements as it merges all the ops in a batch into a single op and also eliminates the op envelope overhead.

Reviewer 2: > Grouped batching heavily decreases the number of ops observed by the server (therefore decreasing the odds of throttling)

Does this mean that Fluid server implementations throttle based on the number of _ops_ (not http requests / websocket messages) in some time range? So the effect of batching and grouped batching are different in that regard? Also, is that supposed to be standard in any Fluid server implementation?

Author: Good callout. This only handles any possible op count throttling from server implementations.

Author: I don't think this should be specified TBH
